---
layout: post
author: Sheenita Bhah
title: " Jesus Is An Emo..."
date: 2018-06-02 17:30:00 +0300
subtitle: Sweet Mary, Mother of an Emo
---
I was watching Emo the Musical the other day, in between considering the meaning of life and forcing my friends to have Deep Meaningful Chats, when a certain song lyric jumped out at me:

    "He felt the pain of all mankind, but emos do that all the time. Was Jesus an emo?"

The 2016 smash hit musical took the world by storm when it first arrived on the scene, delighting the crowds with its thought-provoking lyrics and plot, being compared to many to such musical greats such as West Side Story and Les Misérables. Its sensational cast easily transitioned into the opposing gangs of chirpy Christians and angst-ridden emos, with the voices to match. Unsurprisingly though, I am not here to talk to you about the quality of the film. I need to talk about Jesus.

One of the most important points raised in the film filled with symbolism and themes of morality was that of Jesus being an emo. Now, for you non-up-to-date peasants, an emo is defined by Urban Dictionary as being:

    "A group of white, mostly middle-class well-off kids who find imperfections in their life and create a ridiculous, depressing melodrama around each one. They often take anti-depressants, even though the majority don't need them. They need to wake up and deal with life like everyone else instead of wallowing in their imaginary quagmire of torment."

You might question the authenticity of my relating Jesus to a white, middle-class child with no purpose, but bear with me.

Though we might equate Jesus to being someone who embodies the exact opposite of these qualities, someone of a higher power who would spread messages of joy and self-sacrifice, you don't have to look too far to find the truth.

It might be easiest to take our point of reference - Would Jesus? from Emo the Musical - and find the evidence to back up each suggestion:

1.  _Do you think Jesus smiled all the time?_

    This is really a no-brainer and I should not have to explain it too deeply for you to get the gist, but I cannot imagine Jesus would have been breaking out a smile surrounded by the horrific poverty and high death levels of the time, or when he was being crucified on the cross.

2.  _Think he locked himself in his room and cried?_
    
    One of the focal points of the New Testament is showing Jesus' compassion towards his fellow men and women, with passages such as Mark 6:34 and Romans 8:1 demonstrating this. It is therefore not unreasonable to assume that at some point Jesus would have wept with sorrow and sympathy for his compatriots, perhaps even in the solitude of his own room.
    
3.  _Do you think there might have been a chance he liked My Chemical Romance?_

    This argument is a bit harder to comprehend given that My Chemical Romance was an American rock band that was formed in 2001, roughly 1970 years after Jesus' estimated death year of 30 or 36 AD. MCR were truly one of the best bands of the 2000's and I would argue (incorrectly) of all time, even better than bands such as ABBA and Queen. Undoubtedly, Jesus was the best artist of his era and beyond, creating bangers like "He's Got the Whole World in His Hands", "10,000 Reasons (Bless the Lord)" (which I urge you to see performed live: it's honestly a life-changing experience), and "Dotknij Panie Moich Oczu". I would like to imagine that if the two co-existed in the same age, we would be seeing some otherworldly collaborations.

4.  _His blood it fell in crimson shades, his crucifix a razor blade_

    The entirety of Emo the Musical is filled to the brim with mystical metaphors that will blow your mind and leave you questioning all your pre-conceived thoughts. This is some stunning imagery produced by the songwriters; it is at this point which it becomes obvious that Emo the Musical was robbed by the Academy Awards of the opportunity to become the first musical to win the Best Picture award since Chicago in 2002.
    To compare the cross on which Jesus hung to absolve the world of their sins with the appliance of choice of an emo to liberate their feelings regarding the current sins in the world is a poetic and daring choice, which required a certain level of gallantry to execute. I, for one, applaud the director for their fearlessness with this creative choice. Brava!

5.  _He felt the pain of all mankind but emos do that all the time_

    Emos feel the angst of the whole world. I feel like I'm defining recursion here. Need I go on.

6.  _Jesus said "Blessed are those who mourn", emos embrace that ideal_

    One of the focal attributes to being an emo is understanding the feeling that the whole world is against you. As a conspiracist, I have had a great deal of experience in this sector. I live knowing that the biggest agencies of the world are following my every move (have I mentioned how a secret branch of the KGB has been reformed in order to track how I spread my message). I mourn the days that I could leave the house freely and not have to watch over mine and my husband's shoulders for those who lurk in the shadows. Through all this, I still consider myself to be blessed. I am blessed by my family. I am blessed by my friends. I am blessed by my husband, my one true love.

7.  _If He'd had been in high school too, I think that they'd persecute him like an emo_

    Now here's where we might set apart some of our more racially insensitive peers. The fact of the matter is that Jesus was Jewish, even if his birth inspired the birth of Christianity (mad, I know). It is already known that Jesus was persecuted at the time by his associates that did not believe he was the Messiah or just downright didn't like him (did someone say King Herod?). But if we take his situation and put it into a 21st century high school, I think we would rather find a whole host of anti-Semitic opinions towards him, as some people decided a mass genocide wasn't enough.

As much as I desire to expand this comparison even further and detail how Mary Magdalene features into this theory, I can't reveal too many secrets about this subject. As you probably are aware, this is a touch and go subject in today's society.

I've already heard of threats from the Westboro Baptist church through my underground network. It would not be hard to believe they would try to track me down, flying on their private jet (hopefully not my husband's), to protest outside my house in southern Birmingham, 10 minutes from the nearest Co-operative. But, before I give away too much information, I must sign off. 